David Shapiro

IT 262

Tuesday/Thursday 6:30 – 7:45

Google Drive is a data cloud service, where you can store and access all types of documents through the internet. These can range from videos to word documents, while running fairly quickly. From there you can download your data from any computer. GitHub is an open source code and document host and sharing service. On Github, you can store anything from program code to a word document. Anyone can edit this document, and send it back after they revise it. It also features a new, more efficient form of storing files. 

Through Github, all types of assignments and projects can be assisted. On an individual project that you are struggling with, it can be posted on Github and someone else accessing the site can help. What you can do is issue a listing of a document that has an error and that you need help with. You get assistance from labels, comments or a variety of other ways. On a group project, you can post it for your specific team to see. You can create private repositories where issues can be created and viewed only by teammates of your particular project. With Github, the project can be worked on and edited in real time, even when you’re not with the other members in person. Github can be used for programming courses because it is designed primarily to help other programmers with their code. On Github, the users are encouraged to help others with their coding issues. They utilize something called Milestones. The more code you fix and issues you save, the more milestones you receive. In a non-programming course where you may be working on an essay, labels and commit keywords are extremely helpful. When someone helps you edit your essay, they can use labels to color coordinate the sections that they helped you on for organizational purposes. Also, keywords are used to link you to the exact moment your error was made and what they did to fix it.

Google Drive is another excellent application that aids in success of projects and assignments. It first of all helps individual assignments, since you can access the assignment files anywhere. For example, if you are working on an individual assignment and your laptop breaks, then you can go somewhere else and access this code, whether it is the library or a friend’s house. This application also assists in group projects, because if someone in the group does not have access to a computer, group won’t be hurt since he will have storage of his work. The group member without a computer can a school computer. Also, Drive has a comment section where you can communicate with others on a document. You do this by adding their email address to the document and it sends to them. The aid of programmers is another significant asset to the Google Drive features. Their programming section called Google Drive SDK, has API’s that include client libraries, language examples, and documents that help develop apps through drive.  You can also run Drive apps in languages such as Java, PHP, Javascript and many more. Google Drive helps with non-programming courses because not only can the user pull up and edit their assignment anywhere, but they can look at their entire revision history. If for some reason a recent change on a document reconsidered, all of the pre-revised documents will still be accessible. 


